"Programming is learned by writing programs"

Everything is an instruction to the computer 

The computer looks for the main function to start running its instructions 

How does the executable come to life?
1. Compilation
Take the source code and turns into object code(machine code)
Checks for the grammar of the programming language 

2. Linking
A linker takes different object files (machine code files) and connects them together
Checks for missing imports of modules or definition
Executables cannot be portable (with some detailed exception)
The source code is portable 

Review Questions:
1. What is the purpose of the "Hello, World!" program?
To introduce a simple program showing the different features of C++

2. Name of the four parts of the function
a. Return type b. func name c. parameters d. function body 

3. Name a function that HAS to appear in every C++ program 
main() 

4. What is the purpose of the line return 0;?
To indicate the program ran successfully 

5. What is the purpose of the compiler?
To turn the source code into machine code --> checks for grammar of C++

6. What is the purpose of the import statement?
To use a module within our code 

7. What is the purpose of the #include directive?
The old-school and safe way to include other libraries within our code 

8. What does a .cpp suffix at the end of the file name signify?
Signifies that the file is a source code file, meant to have definitions and be included in the compilation process 

9. What does the linker do for the program?
Links the object files together to produce an executable 

10. What is the difference between a source file and an object file?
Source file is the code file we write, the object file is the file the compiler produces 

11. What is an executable?
A file when ran -> produces the outcome of the code we wrote 

12. What is an IDE and what does it do for you?
Integrated Development Environment: makes the process of programming easier, a packaged software for writing software efficiently

13. How do you get a compiled program to run?
You link the object files together 

14. What is a comment?
A note for the programmer, ignored by the compiler 

15. What is the purpose of a drill?
To reinforce the actions needed for practicing programming 

16. Practice is necessary!!! 




