Chapter 3: Computation Review

"If it doesn't have to produce correct results, I can make it arbitrarily fast" 

1. What is a computation?
An expression or set of expressions which produce an input or output to be used in a program

2. What do we mean by inputs and outputs to a computation? Give examples 
Inputs are used to produce an output (which is what is given as a result)
func (int x) {
    std::cout << x << '\n';
  }

3. What are the three requirements a programmer should keep in  mind when expressing computations 
a. Consistent
b. Efficient 
c. Safety

4. What does an expression?
Makes a simple data value 

5. What is the difference between a statement and an expression?
A statement indicates an effect of an expression

6. What is an lvalue?
lvalue is the value on the left of an operator
+,-,*,/ > < etc..
These operators need lvalues as they are at minimum binary operators 

7. What is a constant expression?
An expression that does not change its value throughout the programs life 

8. What is a literal?
A literal is a value typed directly into the source code

9. What is a symbolic constant and why do we use them?
const <var> is a symbolic constant. We use them to indicate the value will not be changed 

10. What is a magic constant?
A magic constant is a number that represents a value that change but is used in multiple places of the code 

11. What are some operators that we can use for integers and floating-point values?
PEMDAS, > <, ++, -- (post and pre) *= += etc..

12. What operators can be used on integers but not on floating-point numbers 
NOT SURE 

13. What are some operators that can be used for strings?
+, > < 

14. When would a programmer prefer a switch-statement to an if-statement?
When we have a set amount of constants we would like to compare a value against 

15. What are some common problems with switch-statement?
Can become too verbose, not efficient for nested conditions, rules for the cases 

16. What is the function of each part of the header line in a for-loop, and in what sequence are they executed?
initializer, condition, increment 
As they are written 

17. When should the for-loop be used and when should the while-loop be used?
For-loop when limited number of operations to be done 
While-loop when we do operations based on some true condition and not a number of set times 

18. Describe what the line char foo(int x) means in a function definition.
Return type: char, foo: function name, int x: parameter 

19. When should you define a separate function for part of a program?
- When the code is repeatable
- Want to perform a specific action 
- Make testing easier 

20. What can you do to an int that you cannot do to a string?
Divide strings and increment(maybe)?

21. What can you do to a string that you cannot do to an int?
Check length

22. What is the index of the third element of a vector?
2

23. How do you write a for-loop that prints every element of a vector?
I already did this in my project 

24. What does vector<char>alphabet(26) do?
Creates a vector of 26 elements with data type char (does this mean its empty or initialized with values???)

25. Describe what push_back() does to a vector?
Adds an element to the back of the vector -> if close to full -> allocate new and then add 

26. What does vector's member size() do?
Gives back the number of elements in the vector

27. What makes vector so popular/useful?
Its the easiest way to store data, its ease of use and its also efficient 

28. How do you sort the elements of a vector?
Call an algorithm of the vector??? stl sort???


